auth-for-mcp/README.md, before:

# Auth For MCP

### Examples

Explore the following examples demonstrating the integration of **Auth0** with Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers:

- **FastMCP + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A FastMCP server example implementation of an MCP server using FastMCP framework with Auth0.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/fastmcp-mcp-js)

- **FastMCP + Python:**
   A FastMCP server example implementation in Python using the `auth0-api-python` library for Auth0 authentication with Bearer and DPoP token support.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/fastmcp-mcp-python)

- **FastMCP with Custom Token Exchange (CTE):**
   A FastMCP server demonstrating Auth0 Custom Token Exchange for accessing upstream APIs on behalf of authenticated users.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/fastmcp-mcp-customtokenexchange-js)

- **Express + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A Express server example implementation of an MCP server using Express framework with Auth0.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/express-mcp-js)

- **Hono + Cloudflare Workers + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A Hono server example implementation of an MCP server using Hono framework with Auth0 built for Cloudflare Workers.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/hono-mcp-js)

- **XMCP + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A XMPC server example implementation of an MCP server using XMCP framework with Auth0.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/xmcp-mcp-js)

- **NextJS + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A NextJS server example implementation of an MCP server using NextJS framework with Auth0.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/nextjs-mcp-js)

Commit message:

feat: add xmcp-mcp-tokenvault-js sample with documentation and screenshots

auth-for-mcp/README.md, after:

# Auth For MCP

### Examples

Explore the following examples demonstrating the integration of **Auth0** with Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers:

- **FastMCP + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A FastMCP server example implementation of an MCP server using FastMCP framework with Auth0.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/fastmcp-mcp-js)

- **FastMCP + Python:**
   A FastMCP server example implementation in Python using the `auth0-api-python` library for Auth0 authentication with Bearer and DPoP token support.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/fastmcp-mcp-python)

- **FastMCP with Custom Token Exchange (CTE):**
   A FastMCP server demonstrating Auth0 Custom Token Exchange for accessing upstream APIs on behalf of authenticated users.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/fastmcp-mcp-customtokenexchange-js)

- **Express + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A Express server example implementation of an MCP server using Express framework with Auth0.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/express-mcp-js)

- **Hono + Cloudflare Workers + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A Hono server example implementation of an MCP server using Hono framework with Auth0 built for Cloudflare Workers.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/hono-mcp-js)

- **XMCP + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A XMPC server example implementation of an MCP server using XMCP framework with Auth0.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/xmcp-mcp-js)

- **XMCP with Token Vault + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   An XMCP server demonstrating Auth0 Token Vault integration for securely accessing third-party APIs (like Google Calendar) on behalf of authenticated users.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/xmcp-mcp-tokenvault-js)

- **NextJS + TypeScript (JavaScript):**
   A NextJS server example implementation of an MCP server using NextJS framework with Auth0.
   [View Example](https://github.com/auth0-samples/auth0-ai-samples/tree/main/auth-for-mcp/nextjs-mcp-js)
