authorization-for-rag/llamaindex-agentic-js/README.md, before:

# LlamaIndex Retrievers + Auth0 FGA

This example demonstrates how to combine [LlamaIndex](https://ts.llamaindex.ai/) with robust authorization controls for RAG workflows. Using [Auth0 FGA](https://docs.fga.dev/), it ensures that users can only access documents they are authorized to view. The example retrieves relevant documents, enforces access permissions, and generates responses based only on authorized data, maintaining strict data security and preventing unauthorized access.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- An Auth0 FGA account, you can create one [here](https://dashboard.fga.dev).
- An OpenAI account and API key create one [here](https://platform.openai.com).

### Setup

1. Create a `.env` file using the format below:

   ```sh
    # OpenAI
    OPENAI_API_KEY=xx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

    # Auth0 FGA
    FGA_STORE_ID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    FGA_CLIENT_ID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    FGA_CLIENT_SECRET=xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    # Required only for non-US regions
    FGA_API_URL=https://api.xxx.fga.dev
    FGA_API_AUDIENCE=https://api.xxx.fga.dev/
   ```

#### Obtain OpenAI API Key

[Use this page for instructions on how to find your OpenAI API key](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/4936850-where-do-i-find-my-openai-api-key). Once you have your key, update the `.env` file accordingly.

#### Configure Auth0 FGA

1. **Add the model**

   Under Model Explorer update the model to contain the model below:

   ```
   model
     schema 1.1

   type user

   type doc
     relations
       define owner: [user]
       define viewer: [user, user:*]
       define can_view: viewer or owner
       define can_edit: owner

   ```

2. **Create a client**

   Navigate to _Settings_ and in the _Authorized Clients_ section click **+ Create Client** button. On the new page give your client a name and mark all three client permissions then click **Create**.

3. Copy the information on the modal and update your `.env` file with the values you now have for `FGA_STORE_ID`, `FGA_CLIENT_ID`, and `FGA_CLIENT_SECRET`.

### How to run it

1. Install dependencies. If you want to run with local dependencies follow root instructions.

   ```sh
   $ npm install
   ```

2. Running the example
   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

---

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://cdn.auth0.com/website/sdks/logos/auth0_light_mode.png"   width="150">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://cdn.auth0.com/website/sdks/logos/auth0_dark_mode.png" width="150">
    <img alt="Auth0 Logo" src="https://cdn.auth0.com/website/sdks/logos/auth0_light_mode.png" width="150">
  </picture>
</p>
<p align="center">Auth0 is an easy to implement, adaptable authentication and authorization platform. To learn more checkout <a href="https://auth0.com/why-auth0">Why Auth0?</a></p>
<p align="center">
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. See the <a href="/LICENSE"> LICENSE</a> file for more info.</p>

Commit message:

[AIDX-323] Rename all ciba/token vault methods for node js (#16)
* fix: init commit

* fix: renamed all ciba/token vault methods

* fix: updated samples

* fix: reverted changes

* fix: reverted changes 2

* fix: comments

* fix: fixed issues

* fix: reverted asynchronous-authorization changes

* fix: reverted asynchronous-authorization changes 2

* fix: dependencies fixing

* fix: updated pdf-parse

* fix: removed temp local packages

* fix: updated ai version

* fix: updated ai version - revert

* fix: updated examples

* fix: reverted calculator tool

* feat: local build, lint review updates

* feat: default to npm in READMEs

* fix: update package-lock

* fix: fix @ai-sdk/openai version, ensure model message conversion w/ interrupts

* fix: revert scope updates for now

* feat: deprecate usage of @langchain/community calendar tool

* fix: prevent hydration errors in debugger

* feat: auth-for-rag updates

* fix: updated packages

* fix: code review updates

* fix: delete bun.lock

---------

Co-authored-by: Patrick M. Riley <patrickmriley@proton.me>

authorization-for-rag/llamaindex-agentic-js/README.md, after:

# LlamaIndex Retrievers + Auth0 FGA

This example demonstrates how to combine [LlamaIndex](https://ts.llamaindex.ai/) with robust authorization controls for RAG workflows. Using [Auth0 FGA](https://docs.fga.dev/), it ensures that users can only access documents they are authorized to view. The example retrieves relevant documents, enforces access permissions, and generates responses based only on authorized data, maintaining strict data security and preventing unauthorized access.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- An Auth0 FGA account, you can create one [here](https://dashboard.fga.dev).
- An OpenAI account and API key create one [here](https://platform.openai.com).

### Setup

1. Create a `.env` file using the format below:

   ```sh
    # OpenAI
    OPENAI_API_KEY=xx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

    # Auth0 FGA
    FGA_STORE_ID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    FGA_CLIENT_ID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    FGA_CLIENT_SECRET=xxxxxxxxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    # Required only for non-US regions
    FGA_API_URL=https://api.xxx.fga.dev
    FGA_API_AUDIENCE=https://api.xxx.fga.dev/
   ```

#### Obtain OpenAI API Key

[Use this page for instructions on how to find your OpenAI API key](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/4936850-where-do-i-find-my-openai-api-key). Once you have your key, update the `.env` file accordingly.

#### Configure Auth0 FGA

1. **Add the model**

   Under Model Explorer update the model to contain the model below:

   ```
   model
     schema 1.1

   type user

   type doc
     relations
       define owner: [user]
       define viewer: [user, user:*]
       define can_view: viewer or owner
       define can_edit: owner

   ```

2. **Create a client**

   Navigate to _Settings_ and in the _Authorized Clients_ section click **+ Create Client** button. On the new page give your client a name and mark all three client permissions then click **Create**.

3. Copy the information on the modal and update your `.env` file with the values you now have for `FGA_STORE_ID`, `FGA_CLIENT_ID`, and `FGA_CLIENT_SECRET`.

### How to run it

1. Install dependencies. If you want to run with local dependencies follow root instructions.

   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

2. Initialize Auth0 FGA with the necessary model and tuples.

   ```sh
   npm run fga:init
   ```

3. Running the example
   ```sh
   npm start
   ```

---

<p align="center">
  <picture>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://cdn.auth0.com/website/sdks/logos/auth0_light_mode.png"   width="150">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://cdn.auth0.com/website/sdks/logos/auth0_dark_mode.png" width="150">
    <img alt="Auth0 Logo" src="https://cdn.auth0.com/website/sdks/logos/auth0_light_mode.png" width="150">
  </picture>
</p>
<p align="center">Auth0 is an easy to implement, adaptable authentication and authorization platform. To learn more checkout <a href="https://auth0.com/why-auth0">Why Auth0?</a></p>
<p align="center">
This project is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. See the <a href="/LICENSE"> LICENSE</a> file for more info.</p>
